Software tools are not sufficient to effectively manage knowledge. Focusing too much on software tools to manage knowledge often results in knowledge misrepresentation as there are many different types of knowledge owned by individuals or organizations and this richness of knowledge is hardly taken into account by tools. Buying or developing a software tool is the easiest task of the knowledge management process which includes many difficult but unavoidable tasks such as knowledge management strategy definition and implementation, people motivation, and establishment of an organizational culture of knowledge sharing. As stressed by Mellor , the contribution of software tools to knowledge management is not limited to data management. It consists mainly in enabling knowledge creation, distribution, and sharing. This suggests that organizations need to define a knowledge management strategy which is compliant with business strategy in order to establish the appropriate priorities. Knowledge management tools have to take into account that knowledge is a fluid mix of framed experience, values, contextual information, and expert insight that provides a framework for evaluating and incorporating new experiences and information. It originates and is applied in the minds of individuals and it often becomes embedded in documents or repositories, routines, processes, and practices of organizations . It follows that there is no knowledge management tool which stands alone. Understanding the role and the constraints of such tools depends on people who use them, organizational context where they are used, and practices and methodologies they support. Therefore, to better understand and implement the knowledge management in organizations, there is a need to focus on the knowledge management system concept which includes both knowledge management tools, organizational context, and individuals. In particular, the human resources and the organizational context characteristics are essential for the knowledge management systems effectively support the knowledge management in organizations. In this paper, we define knowledge management system as the conjunction of four interacting components: technology, knowledge management process, people, and organizational context. Technology refers to IT-based knowledge management tools used to support the organizational actors while carrying out the knowledge management process activities. They include knowledge repositories, knowledge experts catalogs, and web2.0 tools. People refer to organizational actors who carry out the knowledge management process. Such actors belong either to the organization concerned with knowledge management or to its partners (external consultants, providers, customers,…). Organizational context refers to a set of organizational characteristics that influence knowledge management. It includes organizational culture, national cultures of organizational actors, organization's structure, and management style. The four components of knowledge management systems are interdependant and interact continously. In particular, as demonstrated by the structurational model of technology  or the adaptive structuration theory , there is a reciprocal relationship between the technology component, the people component, and the organizational context component of knowledge management systems. On the one hand, technology defines the ways that people think, options for behavior, and ranges of possible consequences  . On the other hand, people simultaneously shape technologies while using them. Finally, the interaction between technology and organizational context is based on technology enactment by users. In other words, by using technology, organizational actors redefine the structural properties of the organizational context they inhabit . Therefore, knowledge management systems have four facets - a technological facet, a human resources facet, a process facet, and a context facet - which determine the drivers of their effectiveness while interacting and influencing each other. As a result, the drivers of knowledge management systems effectiveness can be grouped in four categories associated with their four facets, and depend both on the organization's knowledge management strategy and process, and its external environment. Fig. 1 below illustrates knowledge management system's components and their interactions. This diagram shows that the knowledge management strategy in an organization is the result of the overall strategy of this organization. Thus, to manage knowledge, some organizations have a centralized strategy while others implement a decentralized strategy or an intermediate strategy partly centralized and partly decentralized. The knowledge management strategy results in recommendations for the four components of knowledge management systems. For the "technology" component, these recommendations include the characteristics of software tools that support knowledge management processes. For the "people" component, the knowledge management strategy determines in particular incentives, communication, and training resources necessary for the implementation of the knowledge management process. Similarly, this strategy determines the priorities for the activities of the knowledge management process. For example, for organizations that do not have a knowledge management tradition, the collection of knowledge is a priority activity. For other organizations, the most important activity of knowledge management processes is knowledge sharing. The four components of a knowledge management system interact continuously. On one hand, the implementation of the knowledge management process tasks in particular on the motivation, experience, expertise, and national and organizational culture of individuals. Similarly, the implementation of the knowledge management process is a means of learning for individuals involved in this process. On the other hand, the use of software tools to implement the knowledge management process contributes to the effectiveness of this process while imposing a set of constraints on both the supported activities and software tools themselves. Furthermore, individuals - while enhancing organizational context with their knowledge, their beliefs, and their national cultures, implement the knowledge management process taking into account the characteristics of this context such as organizational structure, management style, organizational culture, and standards. Moreover, the knowledge management process is situated in the organizational context which provides it with the organizational resources (structure, standards,...) necessary for its implementation. However, the recommendations of the strategy regarding the activities of the knowledge management process may result in changes to certain aspects of the organizational context like - for example - the organizational structure. Finally, analysis of the reciprocal impact between the technology and the organizational context and between technology and people is based on the "structurational" technology model   and the structuration adaptive theory  presented above. In particular, as shown by Orlikowski and Robey , Orlikowski , and DeSanctis and Poole , there is a reciprocal relationship between technology, people, and organizational context. First, technology defines the ways in which individuals think, their behavioral options, and the possible consequences of each behavior  . Then, individuals modify technology while using it. Similarly, the interaction between technology and organizational context is based on the adoption of technology by organizational actors. In other words, by using technology, organizational actors redefine the structural properties of the organizational context to which they belongs .
